Franzle

Indecision and delays are the parents of failures

The advent of systems of cooperative cyber-physical systems
draws attention to a central problem of networked and distributed
control systems: the ubiquity of delay in feedback loops between
logically or spatially distributed components, which is not adequately 
reflected in traditional models of hybrid-state dynamics based on
ordinary differential equations and immediate transitions. Occurrence
of feedback delays may significantly alter a system's dynamic response.
Unmodeled delays in a control loop consequently have the potential to
invalidate any stability and safety certificate obtained on a related
delay-free model, which is current practice in hybrid-system analysis.
In this talk, we will present various approaches to the analysis and
correct-by-construction design of dynamical systems subject to delayed
information exchange, as pertinent to distributed hybrid systems. We
will explain automatic verification procedures for invariance properties
and bounded temporal-logic based on constraint-solving or rigorous
generalization from simulations. This analytical view will be
complemented by a constructive one based on a notion of delayed games
and corresponding strategy synthesis algorithms.


Raussen

Topological models for spaces of executions in HDA

Higher dimensional automata (HDA) are powerful models for concurrency in terms of
expressiveness. They can be described using cubical complexes which makes the topic
amenable to a combinatorial/topological analysis. An execution corresponds to a directed
path (d-path) in such a (time-flow directed) state space, and a d-homotopy
(preserving the directions) of d-paths has equivalent computations as a result. This is why
we started investigating the space of all executions (d-paths between given end points)
in an HDA from a topological perspective. The determination of path components is
particularly important for applications.

Getting to grips with the effects of the non-reversible time-flow is essential, and one
needs to "twist" methods from ordinary algebraic topology in order to make them
applicable. I will discuss particular directed spaces arising from Higher Dimensional
Automata (HDA). There are various methods identifying the homotopy type of the space
of executions between two states in such an automaton with some finite complex: in
simple cases as prodsimplicial complex - with products of simplices as building blocks
- or as a configuration space living in a product of simplices.
In several interesting cases,
it is possible to calculate homology groups and other topological invariants of execution
spaces. We sketch a method recently devised by Ziemiański identifying - for a general
HDA - a space of directed paths with a prodpermutahedral complex arising by glueing
various permutahedra along their boundaries.

Joint work with L. Fajstrup (Aalborg), E. Goubault, E. Haucourt, S. Mimram (Éc.
Polytechnique, Paris), R. Meshulam (Haifa) and K. Ziemiański (Warsaw)


Wisniewski

Safety Verification of Stochastic Hybrid Systems

I will define the notion of safety both for deterministic and stochastic systems. As for stability of dynamical systems, we associate a function to the dynamical systems and study its properties. A barrier certificate is such a function. If we additionally assume that this function is polynomial, we arrive at an algebraic test. In short, we check if a function and its directional derivative is positive on certain sets. To this end, one can use the sum of squares and associated toolboxes in Matlab. I will extend the concept of barrier certificates from dynamical systems to stochastic hybrid systems. Two hybrid systems will be discussed: a switching diffusion process and piecewise deterministic Markov process. A switching diffusion process is a family of diffusions coupled by a random switching process - a compound Poisson process. The random switching process models sporadic switches between continuous subsystems. The second object of interest is Davis’ piecewise deterministic Markov process. A piecewise deterministic Markov process consists of deterministic dynamical systems that alternate with random discrete transitions. Randomness of the discrete transitions (jumps) is characterised by stochastic time of jumps, and stochastic jump-destinations. This work has been done in collaboration with Manuela L. Bujorianu (Strathclyde).

