QONFEST 2020 Workshop Proposal

Uli Fahrenberg
Sergio Rajsbaum

The above organizers would like to propose to colocate the Fourth
International Workshop on Methods and Tools for Distributed Hybrid
Systems with QONFEST 2020.

Name of workshop: Fourth International Workshop on Methods and Tools
for Distributed Hybrid Systems

Preferred date: 5 September 2020

Description:

The DHS workshops have been organized since 2017.  The first edition
was colocated with MFCS in Aalborg, the second was held in Paris, and
the third was associated with CONCUR in Amsterdam; see

    http://dhs.gforge.inria.fr/

The purpose of DHS is to connect researchers working in real-time
systems, hybrid systems, control theory, distributed computing, and
concurrency theory, in order to advance the subject of distributed
hybrid systems.

Distributed hybrid systems, or distributed cyber-physical systems, are
abundant.  Many of them are safety-critical, but ensuring their
correct functioning is very difficult.  We believe that new techniques
are needed for the analysis and validation of DHS.  More precisely, we
believe that convergence and interaction of methods and tools from
different areas of computer science, engineering, and mathematics is
needed in order to advance the subject.

The DHS workshops thus place themselves nicely in the intersection of
the QONFEST member conferences.  The first three editions were rather
successful in getting mathematicians, control theorists, and computer
scientists to talk with one another, and colocating DHS with QONFEST
would allow this endeavor to continue and grow.

DHS 2020 will have a special focus on geometric and topological
methods, aiming for synergy with the GETCO conference which will be
held in Paris the week after QONFEST.  GETCO has been organized
regularly since 1999, at some occasions as CONCUR workshops, and
concerns itself with geometric and topological methods in concurrency,
distributed computing, robotics, and data analysis; see

    http://www.lix.polytechnique.fr/~uli/getco20/

Past versions:

DHS 2017 (26 August) had five invited talks and one contributed talk.
We organized the workshop with EPTCS pre-proceedings and a formal CfP;
in hindsight this was an error, as we solicited only one submission
(which was accepted).

The invited speakers were Alessandro Abate (Oxford), Martin Fraenzle
(Oldenburg), Kim G. Larsen (Aalborg), Martin Raussen (Aalborg), and
Rafael Wisniewski (Aalborg).  The workshop had about 15 participants.
We had very lively discussions; most speakers could not finish their
talks as intended because they were being side-tracked by the
audience.

DHS 2018 (4 July) had a more light-weight format, without
pre-proceedings and instead a call for presentations.  We received
four submissions which were all accepted.

We again had five invited speakers, Thao Dang (Grenoble), Lisbeth
Fajstrup (Aalborg), Luc Jaulin (Brest), Emmanuel Ledinot (Paris), and
Andre Platzer (Pittsburgh), with an attendance of about 30.  The
program was more compact than in 2017, but we still had a lot of
interesting discussions.

DHS 2019 (26 August) had three invited and six contributed talks, plus
a panel at the end.  (Unfortunately two of the contributed talks were
canceled at the last minute.)  We kept the no-proceedings format and
received seven submissions, of which we had to reject one because
there was no space in the program.

The invited speakers were Majid Zamani (Colorado), Herve de Forges
(Paris), and Xavier Urbain (Lyon).  Participation was down to 15
again, but it was a very pleasant and convivial experience.

Expected number of participants: 15-30

Organizers:

In order to put DHS on a more permanent footing, we have recently
established a Steering Committee consisting of Alessandro Abate
(Oxford), Uli Fahrenberg (Paris), Lisbeth Fajstrup (Aalborg), Martin
Fraenzle (Oldenburg), Ichiro Hasuo (Tokyo), Taylor T. Johnson
(Vanderbilt), and Sergio Rajsbaum (Mexico).  The SC is responsible for
the overall development of DHS and has appointed Uli Fahrenberg and
Sergio Rajsbaum to organize DHS 2020.

Uli Fahrenberg: Researcher, Computer Science lab, Ecole polytechnique,
Paris, France.  PhD 2005, Aalborg University, Denmark.  Assistant
professor, Aalborg University, then postdoc, Inria Rennes.  Research
interests: algebraic topology, concurrency theory, real-time
verification, and general quantitative verification.
http://www.lix.polytechnique.fr/~uli/

Sergio Rajsbaum: Professor (SNI nivel III), Institute of Mathematics,
National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), Mexico City, Mexico.
PhD 1991, Technion, Israel.  Postdoc at MIT, then at Cambridge
Research Lab.  Research interests: theory of distributed computing,
especially issues related to coordination, complexity and
computability; graph theory, and algorithms.

Organization and publication plan:

We intend to keep the 2019 "light-weight" format, without formal
preproceedings.  After the workshop, we may send a separate CfP for a
journal special issue which covers DHS 2020 but is open for other
contributions.  (We are in the process of doing this for DHS 2018 and
2019.)

All previous DHS workshops had a sponsorship of 2000€ from the Chaire
of Complex Systems Engineering at Ecole polytechnique.  This
sponsorship is again available for DHS 2020, which will allow us to
invite several speakers.  We intend to have four invited talks (60 min
each), four contributed talks (30 min each), plus a discussion panel
at the end (30 min); this should fill a day's program.

Potential invited speakers (not confirmed; in alphabetical order):

Erika Abraham (Aachen)
Pierre Fraigniaud (Paris)
Eric Goubault (Paris)
Tom Henzinger (Vienna)
Maurice Herlihy (Brown)
Maryam Kamgarpour (Zurich)
Marta Kwiatkowska (Oxford)
Luis Montejano (Mexico)
Rotem Oshman (Tel Aviv)
Pavithra Prabhakar (Kansas)
Ulrich Schmid (Vienna)
