Majid Zamani, University of Colorado Boulder, United States

Majid Zamani is an assistant professor in the Computer Science
Department at University of Colorado Boulder. Between May 2014 and
January 2019, he was an assistant professor (W2 grade) in the
Department of Electrical Engineering at Technical University of Munich
where he led the Hybrid Control Systems Group. He received a
Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering and an MA degree in Mathematics
both from University of California, Los Angeles in 2012, an
M.Sc. degree in Electrical Engineering from Sharif University of
Technology in 2007, and a B.Sc. degree in Electrical Engineering from
Isfahan University of Technology in 2005. He has received an ERC
starting grant award from the European Research Council in 2018.  His
research interests include verification and control of cyber-physical
systems, hybrid systems, embedded control software synthesis,
networked control systems, and incremental properties of nonlinear
control systems.

Compositional synthesis of interconnected control systems

In this talk, I will propose a design approach for interconnected
control systems, in which the controllers are synthesized
compositionally from high-level logic requirements in a push-button
and formal manner. Examples of such requirements include those
expressed as linear temporal logic (LTL) formulae. In particular, I
will leverage decomposition and abstraction as two key tools to tackle
the design complexity, by either breaking the design object into
semi-independent parts or by aggregating components and eliminating
unnecessary details. I will illustrate the effectiveness of the
proposed results on some case studies. I will show that our proposed
results can handle large-scale systems, which would not have been
possible to tackle using existing techniques.


---

Hervé de Forges, Kopadia, Paris, France

Hervé de Forges, engineer, has for several years been developing new
solutions for underwater oil and gas exploration. In 2017, he
co-founded Kopadia, an innovative engineering and operating company
based on autonomous underwater vehicles (AUV). The specificity of the
company is to develop and operate effective operational models by
having several AUVs collaborate.

Underwater robotics: past, present, and future

Demographic and economic developments require more and more resources,
but onshore possibilities are limited. Naturally, oceans, covering 72%
of our planet, appear as the solution to provide food, minerals or
energy. Most of countries consider these domains as a key for the
future. For example, the European commission supports the "blue growth
strategy" to develop high-potential sectors such as aquaculture,
tourism, biotechnology, energy or seabed mining.

Most of the seas must still be considered unknown areas. The French
oceanic institute (IFREMER) consider that only 10% of the sea bed is
well known. Out of these areas lives a huge and quite unknown
biodiversity (scientists estimate knowing only 24000 species out of
several millions – without bacteria). Most of these ecosystems live
out of continental shelves, in more than 200m depth and their
organization and equilibrium are poorly known.

Here appears the tremendous challenge to withdraw resources from this
environment by preserving its environmental balances and the need for
intensive exploration and monitoring solutions for these areas.

Access to the deep sea is extremely difficult, due to the complexity
of high sea operation organization (distance from port,
communications, cost, etc.) but also due to sea water specificity: no
air, viscosity pressure, no magnetic waves... This has, up to now,
prevented a complete exploration, but after pioneering ages,
autonomous underwater robotics starts a revolution in the access to
the abyss.

In this call, we will see why and how people have continuously
searched to go deeper and to last longer undersea. We will start from
the early ages of assisted diving to offshore robotics for oil & gas
deep seas operations and the latest developments in autonomous robot.
The end of the talk will deal with the future of underwater autonomous
solutions into an exploration perspective and particularly on what
coordinated distributed systems can provide to our ocean knowledge.


---

Xavier Urbain, Université Lyon 1, France

Xavier Urbain is full professor at Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1,
in France.  He obtained his PhD from Université Paris-Sud XI in 2001,
as well as his Habilitation in 2010. Specialist of automated deduction
and certified proof, in particular aimed at exhibiting properties of
programs, he has been principal investigator of various projects on
certified automated proof, and on formal proof for mobile robots.

Swarms of mobile robots, towards safety with versatility

Swarms of mobile robots introduced by Suzuki and Yamashita in their
seminal paper of 1999 have enjoyed ever since a constant growth in
popularity, based on the various applications they promise, and the
numerous variants this model supports.

Characterized by the Look-Compute-Move cycle of robots, they are
suitable for different universes, either discrete or continuous,
various capabilities of the agents and their sensors. The power given
to the adversarial environment plays an important role in this
diversity, allowing or not for faults, and several kinds of synchrony.

Serving the versatility of such swarms, the variants add also to the
tremendous intricacy of proving the soundness of results in this
context, that is proving that a task can be achieved or, to the
contrary, that it is impossible to realise. As potential applications
may be critical, formal methods are of invaluable help to certify
protocol correctness, and theorem soundness.

This presentation will give an overview of some possibilities given by
this Look-Compute-Move model, with an emphasis on formal aspects,
definitions and proofs.
