Apologies for multiple copies of this email; please distribute as you
see fit.

                   CALL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS

                          DHS  2019
                  International Workshop on
      Methods and Tools for Distributed Hybrid Systems
          Associated with CONCUR / FORMATS / FMICS

                 Amsterdam, The Netherlands
                       26 August 2019

                 http://dhs.gforge.inria.fr


The purpose of DHS is to connect researchers working in real-time and
hybrid systems, control theory, distributed computing, and concurrency,
in order to advance the subject of distributed hybrid systems.

Distributed hybrid systems, or distributed cyber-physical systems, are
abundant.  Many of them are safety-critical, but ensuring their correct
functioning is very difficult.  Convergence and interaction of methods
and tools from different areas of computer science, engineering, and
mathematics is needed in order to advance the subject.

This third edition of DHS will add distributed robotics as a special
theme.  This emerging field is concerned with the control of
collaborative swarms of autonomous robots.  Some of our invited
speakers will discuss this subject both from a theoretical and a
practical perspective, and we hope to start a conversation which will
outlast DHS 2019.

We are calling for presentations of original, unfinished, already
published, or otherwise interesting work which can highlight how the
research topics of DHS may interact in order to advance the subject.
DHS 2019 will have no formal proceedings, but there will be a call for
contributions to a special issue of a journal after the workshop.
Please send your proposal to dhs-2019@lists.gforge.inria.fr by 10 June
2019.

INVITED SPEAKERS

   Thierry Grousset, Kopadia, Paris, France
   Majid Zamani, University of Colorado Boulder, US
   Xavier Urbain, Universite Lyon 1, France

PANEL

DHS 2019 will comprise a panel session under the theme

   Verification and synthesis for heterogeneous systems
   encompassing learned and learning components

Modern complex engineering goals require complex models, such as
distributed hybrid systems and heterogeneous system architectures. In
view of recent data-driven technologies and data access capabilities,
models ought to encompass the presence of data-dependent, learned or
learning, and adaptive components. This results in a complex networked
model with black- or grey-box learning components, for instance a
networked control model with a DNN-enabled controller.

This panel discusses approaches to verify such models, or to
synthesise control architectures abiding by network-level goals or
requirements. We solicit contributions and participation from experts
in Rigorous System Design (e.g., contract-based design), Formal
Verification (e.g., assume-guarantee verification), Control
Engineering (e.g., networked control systems), as well as Robotics and
Artificial Intelligence (e.g., multi-agent systems) and Machine
Learning (e.g., deep neural nets).

ORGANIZERS

   Alessandro Abate, Oxford University, UK
   Uli Fahrenberg, Ecole polytechnique, France
   Martin Fraenzle, University of Oldenburg, Germany


For more information, see: http://dhs.gforge.inria.fr/

