CONCUR 2019 Workshop Proposal

Alessandro Abate
Uli Fahrenberg
Martin Fraenzle

The above organizers would like to propose to colocate the Third International Workshop on
Methods and Tools for Distributed Hybrid Systems with CONCUR 2019.

Name of workshop: Third International Workshop on Methods and Tools for Distributed Hybrid Systems

Preferred date: 26 August 2019

Description:

The DHS workshops have been organized since 2017.  The first edition was colocated with MFCS in Aalborg, and the second was held in Paris, see

	http://dhs.gforge.inria.fr/2017/
	http://dhs.gforge.inria.fr/2018/

The purpose of DHS is to connect researchers working in real-time systems, hybrid systems, control theory, distributed computing, and concurrency theory, in order to advance the subject of distributed hybrid systems.

Distributed hybrid systems, or distributed cyber-physical systems, are abundant.  Many of them are safety-critical, but ensuring their correct functioning is very difficult.  We believe that new techniques are needed for the analysis and validation of DHS.  More precisely, we believe that convergence and interaction of methods and tools from different areas of computer science, engineering, and mathematics is needed in order to advance the subject.

The DHS workshops thus place themselves nicely in the intersection of CONCUR and FORMATS.  The first two editions were rather successful in getting mathematicians, control theorists, and computer scientists to talk with one another, and colocating DHS with CONCUR/FORMATS would allow this endeavor to continue and grow.

Past versions:

DHS 2017 (26 August) had five invited talks and one contributed talk.  We organized the workshop with EPTCS pre-proceedings and a formal CfP; in hindsight this was an error, as we solicited only one submission (which was accepted).

The invited speakers were Alessandro Abate (Oxford), Martin Fraenzle (Oldenburg), Kim G. Larsen (Aalborg), Martin Raussen (Aalborg), and Rafael Wisniewski (Aalborg).  The workshop had about 15 participants.  We had very lively discussions; most speakers could not finish their talks as intended because they were being side-tracked by the audience.

DHS 2018 (4 July) had a more light-weight format, without pre-proceedings and instead a call for presentations.  We received four submissions which were all accepted.

We again had five invited speakers, Thao Dang (Grenoble), Lisbeth Fajstrup (Aalborg), Luc Jaulin (Brest), Emmanuel Ledinot (Paris), and Andre Platzer (Pittsburgh), with an attendance of about 30.  The program was more compact than in 2017, but we still had a lot of interesting discussions.

Expected number of participants:

Extrapolating from the two previous DHS instantations, we of course expect 16 submisions and 60 participants...  More seriously, we would be happy to have 30 participants; this also makes it easier to steer the discussions.

Organizers:

In order to put DHS on a more permanent footing, we have recently established a Steering Committee which for now consists of the three organizers below.  We expect to be able to elect one extra SC member at DHS 2019.

Alessandro Abate: Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford and Fellow of the Alan Turing Institute, London.  PhD 2007, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, UC Berkeley.  Postdoc at Stanford University, then Assistant Professor at Delft University of Technology.  Research interests: analysis, verification, and control of heterogeneous and complex dynamical models and applications in cyber-physical systems (particularly involving energy, power, and biological networks).  https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/people/alessandro.abate/home.html

Uli Fahrenberg: Researcher, Computer Science lab, Ecole polytechnique, Paris.  PhD 2005, mathematics, Aalborg University.  Assistant professor, Aalborg University, then postdoc, Inria Rennes.  Research interests: algebraic topology, concurrency theory, real-time verification, and general quantitative verification.  http://www.lix.polytechnique.fr/~uli/

Martin Fraenzle: Professor, Department of Computing Science, University of Oldenburg and head of research group "Hybrid Systems".  PhD 1997 (Dr.rer.nat.), University of Kiel.  Postdoc, then assistant professor, at University of Oldenburg, then associate professor at Technical University of Denmark.  2013-15 Dean of the School of Computing Science, Business Administration, Economics, and Law at University of Oldenburg.  Research interests: modelling, verification, and synthesis of reactive, real-time, and hybrid dynamics in embedded and cyber-physical systems, and applications in cyber-physical systems (particularly automotive domain and power networks).  https://uol.de/hs/mitarbeiterinnen-und-mitarbeiter/prof-dr-martin-fraenzle/

Organization and publication plan:

We intend to keep the 2018 "light-weight" format, without formal preproceedings.  After the workshop, we will send a separate CfP for a journal special issue which covers both DHS 2018 and 2019, but is open for other contributions.

DHS 2017 and 2018 both had a sponsorship of 2000 € from the Chaire of Complex Systems Engineering at Ecole polytechnique.  This sponsorship is again available for DHS 2019, which will allow us to invite several speakers.  We intend to have four invited talks (60 min each), four contributed talks (30 min each), plus a discussion panel at the end (30 min); this should fill a day's program.

Potential invited speakers (not confirmed):

Marta Kwiatkowska (Oxford)
Erika Abraham (Aachen)
Eric Goubault (Paris)
Sergio Rajsbaum (Mexico)
Xavier Urbain (Lyon)
Pavithra Prabhakar (Kansas State)

